@c glblvrbl.texi
@c Created by Laurence D. Finston (LDF) Wed May  5 14:45:25 CEST 2010

@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen
@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c * (1)  Global Variables and Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv

@node  Global Variables and Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv, Global Functions optdbcli/optdbsrv, Using the Client Program optdbcli, Top
@chapter Global Variables and Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv

@menu
* Global Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv::
* Global Variables optdbcli/optdbsrv::
@end menu

@c ** (2) Global Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv

@node Global Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv, Global Variables optdbcli/optdbsrv,  , Global Variables and Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@section Global Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv

@deftypevr {Global Constant} string {DEFAULT_PORT_STR_AUTH = "5556"}

The port to which users will be connecting per default with authentication as a @code{string}.
@end deftypevr


@deftypevr {Global Constant} int {DEFAULT_PORT_NUM_AUTH = 5556}   
The port to which users will be connecting  per default with authentication as an integer.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} string {DEFAULT_PORT_STR_NON_AUTH = "5557"}
The port to which users will be connecting per default without authentication as a @code{string}.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} int {DEFAULT_PORT_NUM_NON_AUTH = 5557}
The port to which users will be connecting  per default without authentication as an integer.
@end deftypevr


@deftypevr  {Global Constants} int {MAX_PROTOCOL = 4} 
@deftypevrx {} int {NULL_PROTOCOL = 0} 
@deftypevrx {} int {FTP_PROTOCOL = 1}  
@deftypevrx {} int {HTTP_PROTOCOL = 2} 
@deftypevrx {} int {HTTPS_PROTOCOL = 3}
@code{MAX_PROTOCOL} must be changed whenever protocols are added.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {} string {DEFAULT_CA_FILENAME}
The default value is conditionally compiled, depending on the
platform.  It is only non-empty for a selection of machines known to
the author.  If non-empty, the filename is always
@file{DFN-VereinPCAGrid-G01.pem}, but the path differs.

@deftypevrx {} string {DEFAULT_CRL_FILENAME = ""}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} int {MAX_FILENAME = 128}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} int {MAX_USER_ID = 128}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} {unsigned int} {SHOW_USER_ENTRIES   = 1}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} {unsigned int} {SHOW_PUBLIC_ENTRIES = 2}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} string {DEFAULT_LOG_FILENAME = "/tmp/optdbcli.log"}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Constant} string {DEFAULT_ERR_LOG_FILENAME = "/tmp/optdbcli_error.log"}
@end deftypevr

@c ** (2) Global Variables optdbcli/optdbsrv

@node Global Variables optdbcli/optdbsrv,  , Global Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv, Global Variables and Constants optdbcli/optdbsrv

@section Global Variables optdbcli/optdbsrv

@deftypevr {Global Variable} {unsigned int} thread_ctr
Initialized to 0.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} pthread_mutex_t thread_ctr_mutex
@deftypevrx {} pthread_mutex_t cerr_mutex
@deftypevrx {} pthread_mutex_t global_variable_mutex
@deftypevrx {} pthread_mutex_t session_data_mutex
@deftypevrx {} pthread_mutex_t log_strm_mutex
@deftypevrx {} pthread_mutex_t err_log_strm_mutex
Mutexes.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} ofstream output_file_strm
@deftypevrx {} ofstream log_strm
@deftypevrx {} ofstream err_log_strm
Output file streams.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string server_ip_address
The IP address of the server.  Used by the client.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string port_str_auth
@deftypevrx {} string port_str_non_auth
@deftypevrx {} int port_num_auth     
@deftypevrx {} int port_num_non_auth 
Ports.  Initialized to @code{""} or @code{0}, as appropriate.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string input_filename
@deftypevrx {} string output_filename
Filenames.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} bool {save_temp_files = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} string {owner_certificate = ""}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} int {sleep_value = 0}  
For debugging.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} {map<string, string>} dn_fields
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} {map<string, string>} dn_username_map
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} bool is_client
@deftypevrx {} bool is_server
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string distinguished_name_str  
@deftypevrx {} Distinguished_Name_Type distinguished_name
@deftypevrx {} {vector<Distinguished_Name_Type>} distinguished_name_vector
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} string grid_mapfile_filename
Initialized to a value depending on conditionally compiled code.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} {vector<string>} package_names
@deftypevrx {} {vector<string>} package_versions
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} bool {resolve_dependencies = true}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} bool {install = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} bool {fetch = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} bool {authenticated_connection = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} int {errors_occurred = 0}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variable} int {warnings_occurred = 0}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string {DEFAULT_CERT_FILENAME}
@deftypevrx {} string {DEFAULT_KEY_FILENAME}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} string log_filename
@deftypevrx {} string err_log_filename
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global Variables} bool download_fail_continue
@deftypevrx {} bool install_fail_continue
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string {link_directory}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} int {create_links_value = 0}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} {string} globus_site
Set by means of the @option{--globus-site} option.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} {map<string, bool>} globus_site_map
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string optinum_installer_gpg_pubkey_fingerprint
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string gpg_homedir
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} int {trace_value = 0}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} bool {scanner_trace = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} bool {reinstall_flag = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string install_directory
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} int {prerequisites_reinstall_value = 0}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} {vector<string>} temp_file_vector
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} {vector<string>} fifo_vector
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string proxy_cred_filename
@end deftypevr
   
@deftypevr {Global variable} bool {transfer_proxy_cred = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} string transfer_proxy_cred_filename
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variable} bool {proxy_cred_verified = false}
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variables} {vector<string>} cert_filenames
@deftypevrx {} {vector<string>} key_filenames
@end deftypevr


@deftypevr {Global variables} {vector<string>} ca_filenames   
For server only, unless the client needs to verify a proxy credential.
In this case, only the first one is used.
@end deftypevr

@deftypevr {Global variables} {vector<string>} crl_filenames
For server only.
@end deftypevr
     
@deftypevr {Global variable} string session_id  
For client only.
@end deftypevr


@c * (1) Local Variables for Emacs
  
@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c outline-regexp:"@c *\\*+"
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
