@c glossary.texi
@c Created by Laurence D. Finston (LDF) Fri Jul 16 10:03:50 CEST 2010
@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen
@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c * (1) Glossary

@node  Glossary, Lists of Source Files, Database Tables and Views, Top
@unnumbered Glossary

@menu
* A Glossary::
* B Glossary::
* C Glossary::
* D Glossary::
* E Glossary::
* F Glossary::
* G Glossary::
* H Glossary::
* I Glossary::
* J Glossary::
* K Glossary::
* L Glossary::
* M Glossary::
* N Glossary::
* O Glossary::
* P Glossary::
* Q Glossary::
* R Glossary::
* S Glossary::
* T Glossary::
* U Glossary::
* V Glossary::
* W Glossary::
* X Glossary::
* Y Glossary::
* Z Glossary::
@end menu

@c ** (2) A

@node A Glossary, B Glossary, , Glossary
@c @subheading A

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) B

@node B Glossary, C Glossary, A Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading B

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) C

@node C Glossary, D Glossary, B Glossary, Glossary
@subheading C

@table @asis
@item CA 
See ``Certification Authority''.  

@item Certification Authority.  
Issues X.509 certificates.

@item CGI
See ``Common Gateway Interface''.  See also ``FastCGI''.

@item Common Gateway Interface

@item @cpp{} Standard Template Library
@end table

@c ** (2) D

@node D Glossary, E Glossary, C Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading D

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) E

@node E Glossary, F Glossary,  D Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading E

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) F

@node F Glossary, G Glossary,  E Glossary, Glossary
@subheading F

@table @asis
@item FastCGI
An extension to CGI (``Common Gateway Interface'').
@end table

@c ** (2) G

@node G Glossary, H Glossary,  F Glossary, Glossary
@subheading G

@table @asis
@item GNUTLS
A software library for implementing communication among computers over the internet
using the TLS (@dfn{Transport Layer Security}) protocol.  See also TLS.

@end table

@c ** (2) H

@node H Glossary, I Glossary, G Glossary, Glossary
@subheading H

@table @asis
@item handshake
@c !! TODO:  LDF 2012.05.29.  Write something here.
@end table

@c ** (2) I

@node I Glossary, J Glossary, H Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading I

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) J

@node J Glossary, K Glossary, I Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading J

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) K

@node K Glossary, L Glossary, J Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading K

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) L

@node L Glossary, M Glossary, K Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading L

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) M

@node M Glossary, N Glossary, L Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading M

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) N

@node N Glossary, O Glossary, M Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading N

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) O

@node O Glossary, P Glossary, N Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading O

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) P

@node P Glossary, Q Glossary, O Glossary, Glossary
@subheading P

@table @asis
@item peer
A term used with reference to the communication between a client and a server: 
Depending on the current point of view, the @dfn{peer} is the ``other program''.
That is, from the point of view of the client, the server is the peer, 
and vice versa.

@item proxy credential, X.509
See X.509 proxy credential.
@end table

@c ** (2) Q

@node Q Glossary, R Glossary, P Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading Q

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) R

@node R Glossary, S Glossary, Q Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading R

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) S

@node S Glossary, T Glossary, R Glossary, Glossary
@subheading S

@table @asis
@item Standard Template Library, @cpp{}
See @cpp{} Standard Template Library
@end table

@c ** (2) T

@node T Glossary, U Glossary, S Glossary, Glossary
@subheading T

@table @asis
@item TLS 
Transport Layer Security.  See also GNUTLS.
@end table

@c ** (2) U

@node U Glossary, V Glossary, T Glossary, Glossary
@subheading U

@table @asis
@item URL 
Uniform or Universal Resource Locator
@end table

@c ** (2) V

@node V Glossary, W Glossary, U Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading V

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) W

@node W Glossary, X Glossary, V Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading W

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) X

@node X Glossary, Y Glossary, W Glossary, Glossary
@subheading X

@table @asis
@item X.509 Certificate

@item X.509 proxy credential
A file containing an X.509 certificate issued by a user 
(i.e., not a Certification Authority) and the @emph{private key} for 
the certificate.  Usually used for authorization by application
and only valid for a short time, because of the security risk involved in 
including the private key.
@end table

@c ** (2) Y

@node Y Glossary, Z Glossary, X Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading Y

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2) Z

@node Z Glossary, , Y Glossary, Glossary
@c @subheading Z

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

@c ** (2)

@c * (1) Local Variables for Emacs
  
@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c outline-regexp:"@c *\\*+"
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
