@c optdbsrv.texi

@c Created by Laurence D. Finston (LDF) Thu Mar  8 16:50:09 CET 2012

@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.

@c Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.


@c ** (2) Using the Server Program optdbsrv

@node Using the Server Program optdbsrv, Using the Client Program optdbcli, Invoking optdbcli/optdbsrv, Top

@chapter Using the Server Program optdbsrv

Starting the server program @samp{optdbsrv} is simpler than starting
the client.  Normally, it should suffice to start it without any
arguments.  For testing purposes, it can be called like this:

@example
optdbsrv
@end example

@cindex proxy credential, X.509
@cindex X.509 proxy credential
@c
In this case, it will listen on port 5556 for connections from clients
using authentication with X.509 certificates and on port 5557 for
clients that use an @dfn{X.509 proxy credential} to identify
themselves.  (Other ports can be specified with the
@option{--port-auth} and @option{port-non-auth} options, if desired.  
@xref{Connection Options}.)
The defaults for the certificates used are @file{DFN-VereinPCAGrid-G01.pem} 
for the CA certificate and @file{hostcert.pem} and @file{hostkey.pem} for the certificate and
key used by the server to identify itself to the client.

@cindex d@ae{}mon
@cindex d@ae{}mon process
@c
In production use, the server will normally run continuously in the
background as a @dfn{d@ae{}mon} process and should therefore be invoked
as follows:

@example
nohup ./optdbsrv 2>&1 &
@end example

@cindex root, UNIX
@cindex permissions, UNIX
@cindex file permissions, UNIX
@cindex root permissions, UNIX
@cindex permissions, root, UNIX
@c
The final ampersand places the process in the background while 
@samp{nohup} ensures that it will continue to run after the
user that starts it logs out.  It would be a good idea to create a
user @emph{without} root permissions for the purpose of running
@samp{optdbsrv}, and perhaps for other tasks connected with the
Installer package.

Any output written by @samp{optdbsrv} to standard output or standard
error will be redirected to @file{nohup.out}.  (@samp{2>&1} redirects
standard error to standard output while the latter is redirected to
@code{nohup.out}.)  Whoever is responsible for administering @samp{optdbsrv} 
should ensure that this file is truncated once in a while, so it 
doesn't grow too large.

For testing purposes, @samp{optdbsrv} can simply be invoked from the
command line (i.e., as a foreground process):

@example
./optdbsrv 
@end example

@noindent
The options @option{--bison-trace}, @option{--flex-trace} and/or
@option{--trace} can be specified for more debugging output.  (In
addition, @option{--parser-trace} and @option{--scanner-trace} are
synonyms for @option{--bison-trace} and @option{--flex-trace},
respectively.)

The option @option{--trace}, with no argument or a numerical
argument @math{> 0}, causes debugging information for most if not all
of the functions that are called while @samp{optdbsrv} is running.
@xref{Invoking optdbcli/optdbsrv}, for more information
about these options and others that can be used when invoking 
@samp{optdbsrv}.
@xref{Debugging Options}, for more information.
  

@c * (1) Local Variables for Emacs
  
@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c outline-regexp:"@c *\\*+"
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
