@c prsrsrvr.texi
@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.
@c Created by Laurence D. Finston (LDF) Wed May  5 16:01:49 CEST 2010

@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@c * (1) Parser Server

@node Parser Server, Scanner Client, Scanner Server, Top

@chapter Parser Server

@c !! PLEASE NOTE:  If this paragraph is changed, it must be changed
@c correspondingly in the ``Terminal Symbols'' section for the client
@c parser (`prsrclnt.texi')
@c LDF 2010.05.12.

Terminal symbols (a.k.a., ``tokens'') in Bison are implemented as
preprocessor macros, defined in the header file created by Bison when
it's invoked using the @code{-d} or @code{--defines} option.  This
header file must be included in all C or @cpp{} source files that
refer to these terminal symbols.  Since CPP (the C preprocessor) has
no concept of namespaces, it is therefore necessary to ensure that the
names of these terminal symbols differ from those of any other
entities defined in the source code.  For this reason, all of the
terminal symbols defined by the programmer (as opposed to Bison
itself) have the suffix ``@code{_YY}''.  Similarly, the terminal
symbols in the parser for the client have the suffix ``@code{_ZZ}'' 
(@pxref{Parser Client}).

@menu
* Parser Server Symbols Rules and States::
* Parser Server Functions::
@end menu

@c ** (2) Parser Server Symbols Rules and States

@node Parser Server Symbols Rules and States, Parser Server Functions, , Parser Server

@section Parser Server Symbols, Rules and States

@ifinfo
This section consists the contents of the file @file{parser.output}, which is generated automatically 
by Bison and contains information about the server parser.

@verbatiminclude parser.output
@end ifinfo

@iftex
The contents of the file @file{parser.output}, which is generated automatically 
by GNU Bison and contains information about the server parser, is contained in a 
separate document.
@end iftex

@c ** (2) Parser Server Functions

@node Parser Server Functions, , Parser Server Symbols Rules and States, Parser Server

@section Parser Server Functions

@cindex Bison
@cindex GNU Bison
@c
@deftypefun int yyparse (@code{yyscan_t} parameter)
Definition generated by GNU Bison.
@end deftypefun


@c * (1) Local Variables for Emacs
  
@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c outline-regexp:"@c *\\*+"
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
