@c quckstrt.texi
@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.

@c Created by Laurence D. Finston (LDF) Thu Jul  8 13:46:50 CEST 2010

@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@c * (1) Quickstart Guide

@node  Quickstart Guide, Invoking optdbcli/optdbsrv, Introduction, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@chapter Quickstart Guide

@menu
* Client Quickstart::
* Server Quickstart::

@c Comment this back in, if the section is commented back
@c in below.
@c LDF 2010.07.16.
@c * Web Application Quickstart::

@end menu

@c ** (2) Client Quickstart

@node  Client Quickstart, Server Quickstart, , Quickstart Guide
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@section Client

The name of the client program is @samp{optdbcli}.

@*
@noindent
1. Download the package

@noindent
@example
svn checkout \
   https://svn0.eas.iis.fraunhofer.de/optinum/Installer/clntonly
@end example

@noindent
@samp{svn checkout} can be abbreviated to @samp{svn co}. 

@*
@noindent
2.  Build and install the package

@noindent
@example
cd clntonly
configure --prefix=`pwd`
make
make install
@end example

@noindent
The argument @samp{--prefix=`pwd`} to @samp{configure} causes the executable file @file{optdbcli} to 
be installed in the @file{bin/} subdirectory of the current working directory, i.e.,  @file{[...]/clntonly/bin/}, 
where @file{[...]} stands for the working directory when @samp{svn checkout} was called.

@*
@noindent
3.  Call @samp{optdbcli} to add GNU Hello to the package database

@noindent
@example
cd src
optdbcli --input=test_input.txt optinum-srv.gwdg.de
@end example

@noindent
This assumes that @file{test_input.txt} contains commands for adding an entry for GNU Hello.
It will look similar to this:

@display
START_ENTRY
PACKAGE_NAME    <GNU hello>
PACKAGE_VERSION 2.5
DOWNLOAD_URL ftp://ftp.cs.tu-berlin.de/pub/gnu/hello/hello-2.5.tar.gz
END_ENTRY
END
@end display

@noindent
It also assumes that the user's certificate is stored in the file @file{usercert.pem} and 
unencrypted key is stored in the file @file{userkeyt.pem}, and that both of these files 
are in the current working directory.

@*
@noindent
4.  Call @samp{optdbcli} to install GNU Hello

@noindent
@example
optdbcli --no-read --non-auth --install \
 --dn=""/C=US/O=SomeGridOrganization/OU=Acme Widget Corp./CN=John Doe" \
 optinum-srv.gwdg.de
@end example

This assumes that the server (<tt>optdbsrv</tt>) is running on the computer @samp{optinum-srv.gwdg.de}
and that the ``DistinguishedName'' passed in the @samp{--dn} argument is known to the server. 

@c ** (2) Server Quickstart

@node  Server Quickstart, , Client Quickstart, Quickstart Guide
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@c Put this back as the "Next" node above, if it's commented back in.
@c LDF 2010.07.16.
@c Web Application Quickstart

@section Server

@c @c ** (2) Web Application Quickstart

@c @node  Web Application Quickstart, , Server Quickstart, Quickstart Guide
@c @comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up

@c @section Web Application




@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c outline-regexp:"@c *\\*+"
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
