@c server.texi
@c This file is part of the Optinum Grid Installer User and Reference Manual.

@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Gesellschaft fuer wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung mbh Goettingen

@c Author:  Laurence D. Finston (LDF)

@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@c * (1)

@c LOG
@c LDF 2010.05.05.
@c connect.web:  All functions added.  No global variables.
@c ENDLOG 

@c ** (2) Server Connection Function Reference

@node  Server Connection Function Reference, Client Connection Function Reference, Global Functions optdbcli/optdbsrv, Top

@chapter Server Connection Function Reference

@deftypefun int main (int argc, char** argv)
Main function for server.  Defined in @file{optdbsrv.web}.

Sets values of global variables.  
Some of these are set to other values in @samp{optdbcli}, so they
can't be initialized where they are declared in @file{glblvrbl.web}. 

Processes command-line options.

Performs initializations, i.e., of the mutexes that are used.  In
addition, some of the libraries with which @samp{optdbsrv} is linked
require initialization, i.e., the MySQL, libgcrypt and GNUTLS libraries.

It then starts a thread with the function @samp{listen_auth}
and another with the function @samp{listen_non_auth}.  These 
functions continue to execute until the server is stopped.
In normal use, the server is meant to run in the background
``forever''.  In practice, it will be stopped when developing or 
debugging the program, whenever the machine on which it is running 
is rebooted, or for any number of other reasons.

While it doesn't do any harm to just end the program by
sending it a signal to ``kill'' it, which is what one normally does,
the @samp{main} function contains code to ``join with'' the two
threads, after which it destroys the mutexes and calls
@samp{mysql_library_end} and @samp{gnutls_global_deinit}.  
(In addition, it closes an output file, which as of 2010.07.23 is,
however, not open.)  This ensures that program ends cleanly if the
threads exit for some reason, whereby both threads must exit;  if only
one exits, @samp{main} will block forever, waiting for the other one
to exit.

@end deftypefun

The following functions are defined in 
@file{connect.web}.

@deftypefun void* connect_func (void* v)

For ``authorized'' connections using X.509 certification.

@end deftypefun

@deftypefun void* connect_func_non_auth (void* v)
@end deftypefun

@menu
* Exchange Data With Client::
@end menu

@c *** (3) Exchange Data With Client

@node Exchange Data With Client, , , Server Connection Function Reference
@section Exchange Data With Client

@deftypefun int exchange_data_with_client ({Scan_Parse_Parameter_Type *} @var{param})
@code{exchange_data_with_client} is one of the most important
functions in the server program @samp{optdbsrv}.  It controls the communication with the
client program @samp{optdbcli}.
See also @ref{Exchange Data With Server}.
@end deftypefun

  
@c Local Variables:
@c mode:Texinfo
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c eval:(set (make-local-variable 'run-texi2dvi-on-file) "installer.texi")
@c End:
